[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My dad developed a saying
in his last few months,
"There are no luggage
racks on hearses,"
by which he was referring to the
fact that you can't take it with
you.
When you die, whatever you own
stays in the world, the material
world, and gets distributed
however you deem it to go.
But you don't take it with you.
And he knew that.
He did have a private large
suite in the hospital.
I have never seen
anything like it.
But his deathbed was in a
very large, spacious suite
with its own private bathroom
and a couch and a little kitchen
area and a separate wing
over here for another bed,
and not for another patient
but for a family member.
And my sister told me that he
wrote a check for $1 million
to the hospital in those
final days as a donation.
My dad was dying from a
rare type of leukemia,
and he wasn't manufacturing
red blood cells anymore.
And he had to be receiving
transfusions constantly,
constantly.
It's a painful and
time-consuming procedure.
And he was in the hospital
receiving transfusions almost
on a daily basis.
I sometimes thought
maybe he's setting
the world record for
transfusions because he's just--
every day, every other
day, more-- another one.
And the blood products that were
used came from donated blood.
And in our country, the
people who donate blood
are people who--
for the most part,
are people who are poor and
need the money that they
get for donating their blood.
Many of them are
people of color.
Almost all of them are people
of very little financial means.
Some of them are homeless.
These are the people that he
tended to disdain in his life.
And yet, their blood was
circulating through his veins
and keeping him alive.
And I found myself
wondering if--
because we know that when
people get organ transplants,
they will sometimes take on
some of the characteristics
and qualities and even
memories of the donor,
the person whose liver or heart
now makes them possible to live
and now lives in their bodies.
And I thought, well, we
know that about organs.
I don't know of any
literature about that
with blood transfusions.
But he got so many of them, I
wondered if some of what made
possible his opening to love, to
caring at a level that he never
had before-- at least
that I ever saw--
was because of receiving
these transfusions from people
who didn't have money, who
knew that the wealth they had
in their lives was
the relationships
they had because they
didn't have anything else.
I have sometimes thought
that as a society,
we forget the importance
and value of people.
We're taught to love
things and use people.
What if we were to use
things and love people?
And I think a lot of people
have known that historically.
And in our society, it's
kind of an aberration.
We've become so
excessively materialistic
that we have forgotten the
treasures we have in each other.
We've forgotten the gifts
we have to give one another
and to receive from one another.
And that is what makes
life beautiful for us.
And the accumulation
of material things
in the absence of meaningful
and loving relationships
leaves a person
feeling very empty
and even feeling like
their life has no meaning.
In the 12-step programs, they
refer that each of us has
a higher power.
Religions, of course, will
call that God or whatever.
But whatever language
you use, I think--
I experienced that.
My life has been guided
by a higher power.
And I'm not attached to
whatever language you
want to use around
that or anybody
wants to use around that.
But for me, it was everything.
And to learn to listen, to be
quiet enough, to quiet my mind,
open my heart, tune in, and
listen, listen to the silence.
And in the silence, to
hear the callings of life.
My understanding was that if
we can quiet our minds enough
and open our hearts and listen,
our calling will find us.
Our calling will come to us.
We don't have to
go out and find it.
I wasn't inclined to go guru
searching or guru shopping
or try this cult or that one.
My inclination was to become
quiet and listen and let
things unfold from there.
And there was a faith in
that or a trust in that.
And I think my calling
did come and did find me.
So I wanted to awaken people--
all of us, really-- to
the deeper American dream,
which is not about
building a bigger pile
and being better
than other people.
It's about something different
than that and something
much more beautiful and much
more connected to the Earth
and much more ecologically
attuned and much more healthy
and much more
beautiful and caring.
There's more
happening in our lives
than we know because
whatever force
it was that was moving through
him at that time, that enabled
him to let down his walls that
much at that moment, that force,
that energy is
moving in the world.
It's moving through all
of our minds and hearts
if we let it, if we can
find it, if we can heed it.
It has a wisdom.
And if we can make our
actions and lives congruent
with that force and that wisdom,
we can create a new world.
We can create a world worthy
of the suffering and the pain
that all of us go through.
We can create a world worthy
of the dreams of our children
and the dreams of all children.
We can create a world
that doesn't destroy
the planet for us to prosper.
We can create a world
where love prevails.